A case in this video we're going to learn about max and min aggregate functions.
So here I've selected stuff from films table and you can see we have the name and length in minutes
of each of our films.
But let's say we wanted to just select the maximum length so our longest film that was sharing in our
cinema where we can select max lengths men so we're applying the max aggregate function to our length
and column from films.
And if we run now you can see it just returns one value of 153 which was the highest number in this
column.
So our longest film length is 153 minutes.
But what if we wanted to show you the name of the film as well as the max length.
Well we might come in here and we might say let's select the name called him and the max length from
films.
So let's run this.
But you can see this returns an error and he's mentioning grouped by expression here.
And basically we're getting an error because if we select stuff from film again
because the name when we select name is trying to return 12 values is trying to return all the names
in our films table.
But the max length man is only trying to return one value.
So when we run this statement just as it is it doesn't know whether to return 12 values or whether it's
return 1 value.
So we get an error but we can get round this by using group by statements which we're going to learn
later in the section.
So that's how we return the maximum value in a given column.
Now let's look at how we can determine the minimum value.
So let's select the film with the shortest length with the shortest running time.
So to do that we can just come in here and we can apply the mean aggregate function to our length in
column and run that statement and you can see it returns 88.
So all shortest film is 88 minutes.
So just to just under 1 and half hours.
So that's how we return the minimum value in a given column.
OK so that's it for MIN and MAX functions.
Let's move on to the next video.